             Computer Science and Information Technology (CS)  
Page 1 of 7 
Organizing Institute: IIT Kanpur 
General Aptitude (GA) 
 – Q.5 Carry ONE mark Each 
Q.1 We reached the station late, and _______ missed the train. 
  
(A) near 
(B) nearly 
(C) utterly  
(D) mostly  
  
Q.2 Kind : _______ : : Often : Frequently 
(By word meaning) 
  
(A) Mean  
(B) Type 
(C) Cruel 
(D) Kindly 
  
 
 
Q.1
---PAGE BREAK---
             Computer Science and Information Technology (CS)  
Page 2 of 7 
Organizing Institute: IIT Kanpur 
Q.3 A series of natural numbers 𝐹1, 𝐹2, 𝐹3, 𝐹4, 𝐹5, 𝐹6, 𝐹7, … obeys 𝐹𝑛+1 = 𝐹𝑛 + 𝐹𝑛−1 
for all integers 𝑛 ≥ 2 .  
If 𝐹6 = 37, and 𝐹7 = 60, then what is 𝐹1 ? 
  
(A) 4 
(B) 5 
(C) 8 
(D) 9 
  
 
  
---PAGE BREAK---
             Computer Science and Information Technology (CS)  
Page 3 of 7 
Organizing Institute: IIT Kanpur 
Q.4 A survey for a certain year found that 90% of pregnant women received medical 
care at least once before giving birth. Of these women, 60% received medical care 
from doctors, while 40% received medical care from other healthcare providers. 
Given this information, which one of the following statements can be inferred with 
certainty?  
  
(A) More than half of the pregnant women received medical care at least once from a 
doctor. 
(B) Less than half of the pregnant women received medical care at least once from a 
doctor. 
(C) More than half of the pregnant women received medical care at most once from a 
doctor. 
(D) Less than half of the pregnant women received medical care at most once from a 
doctor. 
  
Q.5 Looking at the surface of a smooth 3 -dimensional object from the outside, which 
one of the following options is TRUE? 
  
(A) The surface of the object must be concave everywhere. 
(B) The surface of the object must be convex everywhere. 
(C) The surface of the object may be concave in some places and convex in other places. 
(D) The object can have edges, but no corners. 
  
 
---PAGE BREAK---
             Computer Science and Information Technology (CS)  
Page 4 of 7 
Organizing Institute: IIT Kanpur 
Q.6 – Q.10 Carry TWO marks Each 
Q.6 
 
The country of Zombieland is in distress since more than 75% of its working 
population is suffering from serious health issues. Studies conducted by competent 
health experts concluded that a complete lack of physical exercise among its 
working population was one of the leading causes of their health issues. As one of 
the measures to address the problem, the Government of Zombieland has decided 
to provide monetary incentives to those who ride bicycles to work.  
 
Based only on the information provided  above, which one of the following 
statements can be logically inferred with certainty? 
 
  
(A) All the working population of Zombieland will henceforth ride bicycles to work. 
(B) Riding bicycles will ensure that all of the working population of Zombieland is free 
of health issues. 
(C) The health experts suggested to the Government of Zombieland to declare riding 
bicycles as mandatory. 
(D) The Government of Zombieland believes that riding bicycl es is a form of physical 
exercise. 
  
  
---PAGE BREAK---
             Computer Science and Information Technology (CS)  
Page 5 of 7 
Organizing Institute: IIT Kanpur 
Q.7 Consider two functions of time (𝑡), 
𝑓(𝑡)  = 0.01 𝑡2 
𝑔(𝑡) = 4 𝑡 
where 0 < 𝑡 < ∞. 
Now consider the following two statements: 
(i) For some 𝑡 > 0,  𝑔(𝑡) > 𝑓(𝑡). 
(ii) There exists a 𝑇, such that 𝑓(𝑡) > 𝑔(𝑡) for all 𝑡 > 𝑇. 
Which one of the following options is TRUE? 
  
(A) only (i) is correct 
(B) only (ii) is correct 
(C) both (i) and (ii) are correct 
(D) neither (i) nor (ii) is correct 
  
 
  
---PAGE BREAK---
